156
MILITARY HISTORY, 1649-1660.
[1652.
protesting against the insufficiency of the fleet. \( ^{1} \)  He left port with no more than seventeen ships in all, his own ship, the Neptune, mounting only twenty-six guns. This made reinforcements imperative, for he would attempt nothing before his number had reached twenty-nine, including six fireships. He had instructions to wait for and convoy some fifty merchantmen, and, expecting them, he reached Calais about August 3rd, only to receive news of Ayscue's presence, and, with it, a grossly exaggerated statement of his force. How many and what ships Ayscue had with him cannot be determined; but this much is certain, that he had not, as De Ruijter had been led to suppose, twelve of the first rate and eight of the second, for of the two rates together there were then but six representatives in our Navy.
De Ruijter was joined on August 11th by eight men-of-war bringing to him the merchantmen from the Texel: and it is well to point out in this place that of these merchantmen, of which many were East Indiamen, there were few that were not heavily armed. Thus reinforced he proceeded down Channel, and five days later met Ayscue off Plymouth.
In point of strength the fleets seem to have been well matched. It is impossible to speak exactly as to the numbers, inasmuch as no two accounts agree; but approximately Ayscue had thirty-eight ships and eight small craft, \( ^{2} \) while De Ruijter, it is known, had thirty men-of-war besides small craft. The difficulty is to decide how many of the Dutch merchantmen took part in the engagement. A moderate estimate makes this number about twenty, and in Dutch writers evidence abounds that divers of these acquitted themselves extremely well. \( ^{3} \)
Of the action, as an engagement between fleets, nothing can be said. The chronicles are full of isolated heroic actions of single captains, but the only detail of any value that is preserved is that the wind was at north-east; \( ^{4} \) and even this is discounted by our ignorance of the course which Ayscue was steering and of how he bore when sighted by the Dutch. All that can be said with certainty is that the fight began at about one o'clock and continued till dusk; that the contest was stubborn; that no formation was attempted on either side, and that both countries claimed a victory. As between fleets of men-of-war the advantage lay with neither;
\( ^{1} \)  ‘Vie de De Ruijter,’ 17, 18.
\( ^{2} \)  Col. Rostr., 100.
\( ^{3} \)  ‘Vie de De Ruijter,’ 20; Basnage, 259.
\( ^{4} \)  Ib. 18.
