1625.]
THE WITHDRAWAL FROM CADIZ.
63
he found that the merchantmen had kept out of danger, and that the Dutch had lost two ships. When such conduct passed unpunished, it was easy to foresee what support could be counted on. Wimbledon gave further orders; the troops landed: Sir John Burgh summoned the fort, and, fortunately, it surrendered:—fortunately, because, as afterwards appeared, the troops had not even brought scaling-ladders ashore.
No attempt had been made to pursue the ships up the harbour. Wimbledon had been told that there was not enough water, and had asked no further. He did not consider that Drake had sailed into the harbour before him, and that he might have passed up, as Drake had passed, with the lead going on both sides. Throughout he ignored his commission. Instead of burning the Spanish ships, fifty-nine sail in all, \( ^{1} \) as he had been ordered, he landed troops and marched towards Zuzao bridge. \( ^{2} \) Arrived there he found that his troops had no food—none had been landed—and he stupidly marched them into the village where was stored the wine for the West India fleets. The whole army at once drank itself into a state of madness, and all that Wimbledon could do was to decide that the bridge was not worth holding, or even destroying, and to march his troops back again. Yet this bridge Essex, in 1596, had decided must be held by any one who would hold the town, \( ^{3} \) for it was the only means of access from the mainland to Leon Island, on which Cadiz lies. All that Wimbledon did was, to take Fort Puntal and evacue it, to take the bridge and abandon it, and to capture a few boats from St. Mary Port to replace the long boats which had been lost on the rough passage out.
It was now decided to look for the Plate fleet, and, on November 4th, Wimbledon's squadrons took up their positions in a long line stretching south from Cape St. Vincent. They might have saved themselves the trouble had they known that the fleet had taken the southern route and, creeping up in shore, had reached Cadiz two days after the English had left it.
Wimbledon had intended to cruise till the 20th, but on the 16th he was persuaded to bear up for England. His ships were foul and leaking, the crews were dying fast. Burchett \( ^{4} \) tells a story that,
\( ^{1} \)  "Tracts," p. 273.
\( ^{2} \)  Called the bridge of Suare, in vol. I. 314, 315.
\( ^{3} \)  "Tracts," p. 273.
\( ^{4} \)  Bk. III. Chap. xviii.
