1652.]
NAVAL LAW.
103
on December 25th, 1652, a modification of these rules was enacted for the government of the whole Navy. These were the first regular Articles of War; \( ^{1} \) and to Mr. Oppenheim belongs the credit of being the first to point out that interesting fact. Until he did so it had been generally supposed that the consecutive history of the Articles of War began in 1661; but, as Mr. Oppenheim justly says, “these latter were only based upon those previously existing, which are the groundwork of all subsequent modifications and additions experience has shown to be necessary down to the present day.” \( ^{2} \) There were thirty-nine of them, thirteen prescribing death, and twelve more prescribing either death or a lighter punishment alternatively, according to the view taken by the Court of War trying the offender. But though the code was then, on paper, extremely severe, it was enforced with mercy and discretion; and up to the time of the Restoration there is no known instance of a death sentence pronounced under it having been carried out. Even the fomenters of mutiny escaped. Three men of the Portland, convicted of that most serious offence, or of having incited to it, in 1653, when the country was at war, were let off with the comparatively light though very cruel penalty of having to stand for one hour with their right hands nailed to the mainmast of the flagship and with halters about their necks. Three of their fellows received only thirty lashes apiece.
No force akin to the modern Royal Marines was afloat in British ships until after the Restoration; but the urgency of the situation during the Dutch War led to the embarkation of considerable bodies of soldiers, who assisted in the work of the vessels, and, in fact, did marines' duties. They behaved extremely well, although they went on board under none of their own officers above the rank of sergeant; and, no doubt, it was the recollection of their excellent service that suggested the formation, in the days of Charles II., of a regular force of sea soldiers.
There was still no uniform for naval officers, and seamen dressed as they chose. The practice, prevalent in the early part of the reign
\( ^{1} \)  The rules of 1652 and 1661, however, must not be regarded as the sole source from which the present Articles of War have been evolved. Additional sources continued to be supplied, by means of successive Admirals' instructions, until the commencement of the eighteenth century; and only then did it cease to be the practice for Commanders-in-Chief to issue, as it were, special laws of their own. For a further discussion of this subject, see Chap. XXVI.
\( ^{2} \)  ‘Admin. of Roy. Navy,’ 311.—Thomason Pamphlets  \( \frac{au}{v} \) .
