1673.]
THE BATTLE OF THE TENEL.
319
counters, De Ruijter decided, if possible, to simply hold the French in check, and to fall with somewhat superior force upon the English. He therefore sent Banekers against D'Estrées, and attacked the van and rear with about sixty-five ships to the English sixty-two.
The battle, so far as the French were concerned in it, was not of long duration, and may be very briefly described in Captain Mahan's words:—
“M. de Martel,” he says, “commanding the van of the French, and consequently the leading sub-division of the allied fleet, was ordered to stretch ahead, go about, and gain to windward of the Dutch van, so as to place it between two fires. This he did; but, as soon as Banckers . . . saw the danger, he put his helm up and ran through the remaining twenty ships of D'Estrées’ squadron with his own twelve—a feat as creditable to him as it was discreditable to the French—and then, wearing, stood down towards De Ruijter, who was hotly engaged with Rupert. He was not followed by D'Estrées, who suffered him to carry this important reinforcement to the Dutch main attack undisturbed.”¹
Prince Rupert, while engaging De Ruijter, kept away, with a view to drawing the Dutch from their own shores; and De Ruijter followed him. Thus the centre became separated by a considerable distance from the van. This separation supplied D'Estrées with a pretext for not further co-operating with his commander-in-chief; yet it did not prevent Banckers, a seaman of a very different type, from presently joining De Ruijter.
Sir Edward Sprague, in the rear, seems to have felt it incumbent upon himself to wait for Tromp and the Dutch rear. He therefore hove to, and, of course, drifted quickly to leeward, thus as effectively—though from different motives—separating the rear from the centre, as D'Estrées had separated the van. Tromp, when he came up, drifted away with him in hot and close action. Tromp and Sprague were men of kindred kidney, brave, rash, and insubordinate, and they seem to have delighted in this personal conflict. The Royal Prince, Sprague's first flagship, soon became disabled, and the admiral shifted to the St. George, which in her turn, after about four hours' fighting, was reduced to the condition of a wreck. Tromp was similarly obliged to shift from the Gouden Leeuw to the Comeetstar. Sprague was removing to a third ship, the Royal Charles, when a round shot struck his boat and sank her. Before this happened the wind shifted, and a heavy shower of rain fell, brought down probably by the firing.
Prince Rupert, in the meantime, was terribly pressed by De
1.  \( ^{1} \)  Hall, of Sea Power, 155.
