4
CIVIL HISTORY, 1603-1649.
[1610.
since 1514, \( ^{1} \) and which had been applied to English merchant ships since 1553, was still untried in the Navy, possibly because it had been found to set up galvanic action with the iron of the rudder pintles, etc. Nor was Hawkmys's sheathing of double planks, with tar and hair between them, as generally adopted as it should have been, though it remained in some favour until late in the seventeenth century. Much more care, in fact, was devoted to making ships look well than to making them really serviceable; and the result often was that after her completion a vessel was found to be so crank that it was deemed necessary to “fur” or “girdle” her with a partial, or even an entire external planking beyond her original skin. \( ^{2} \)
As the Royal Prince \( ^{3} \) was the greatest constructive effort of the reign of James I., some account must be here given of her. Her keel was laid at Woolwich on October 20th, 1608, her chief constructor being Phineas Pett. Her nominal tonnage was 1200, but, measured according to the rules in force in 1632, it was 1035 nett, and 1330 gross. After the work had been some time in progress, and had met with much adverse criticism from rival shipwrights, a commission, consisting of Captain George Waymouth, Matthew Baker (who had been a principal constructor for more than half a century), William Bright, Edward Stevens, and others, was ordered to report on what was being done. Pett hated Waymouth, and Baker despised the Pett family, while Bright was particularly jealous of Phineas. But Pett had powerful protectors in the Lord High Admiral and Sir Robert Mansell; and after there had been not only inquiry and further inquiry, but also a special scrutiny by the King and Prince Henry, Phineas Pett emerged triumphant. An attempt to launch the ship was made on September 24th, 1610, but it failed, owing to the dockhead being too narrow to allow her to pass. She was, however, successfully launched a little later. \( ^{4} \)
Pett, on this occasion, owed more to his protectors than to the merits of his work, for the Royal Prince, though a striking object in the water, was both ill-designed and ill-built. As early as 1621, it was reported to Buckingham \( ^{5} \) that although she had cost
\( ^{1} \)  Duro's 'Armada Española,' 121.
\( ^{2} \)  Harl. MSS. 2301: ‘Nomenclator Navalis’ (Manwaring’s ‘Dictionary’).
\( ^{3} \)  Often called Prince Royal, or simply Prince.
\( ^{4} \)  Oppenheim, ‘Admin. of Royal Navy,’ 204.
\( ^{5} \)  Coke MSS. i. 114.
