1675.]
PUNISHMENTS.
223
The King's birthday was celebrated with thirteen guns. \( ^{1} \)  “the last with a shot in her,” Yet there were noisier and more costly displays than these. When Narbrough entered Malta, the Knights gave him forty-five guns, and the salutes and returns lasted for “almost two howers.” Again, upon the conclusion of the arrangement with Tripoli, the town fired all its guns, and each of Narbrough's ships returned twenty-one. On St. George's Day, at the drinking of the King's health, twenty-five rounds were got rid of. And, at the funeral of a captain, the ship fired forty guns, and certain Dutch ships, which were in company, fired at “least one hundred.”
There was an excessive amount of drinking in his Majesty's ships. It was usual, on Saturday evenings, to "end the day and weeke with drinking to our wives in punch bowles," and to drink as well to the King; and Teonge never omitted to take his share on these occasions. When land was sighted, the fact was celebrated in "several boules of punch drank round about the ship." And, when little of importance was doing, we find in the diary such entries as, "Nothing to-day, but drinke to our friends in England in rackee at night."
There are many notices concerning naval punishments. On June 24th, 1675. Teonge writes: "This day 2 seamen, that had stolen a piece or two of beife, were thus shamed; they had their hands tyd behind them, and themselves tyd to the maine mast, each of them a piece of raw beife tyd about their necks in a cord, and the beife bobbing before them like the knot of a crevatt; and the rest of the seamen came one by one and rubd them over the mouth with the raw beife; and in this posture they stood 2 howers." On September 28th, 1675: "This morning one of our men, viz., Skinner, a knowne coockould, for going on shoare without leave, had his legs tyd together, his hands tyd to a greate rope, and stood on the syd of the ship to be hoysted up to the yard amne, and from thence to dropp downe in to the water 3 times; but he looking so very pittfully, and also by the gentlemen's intreatys to the captaine for him, who alleged that he had injuries enough already, as having a wife a whore and a schold to injure him at home, ergo, had the more need to be pityed abroade, was spared." On January 29th, 1676: "This day, David Thomas, and Marlin the
\( ^{1} \)  This was in 1675. In 1676 the senior officer fired eleven guns, and other ships either nine or seven.
