494
MINOR OPERATIONS, 1660–1714.
[1697.
detached force rejoined Vice-Admiral Neville, who had proceeded to sea in search of it. The squadron then headed for Jamaica, and thence steered for Havana, before which city it arrived on July 22nd. On the 20th, Captain Mees had died of fever on board his ship, the Breda.
At Havana, Neville found the galleons. The men of the squadron were weekly, and various supplies were needed; yet the governor declined either to admit the English ships into his harbour, or to relieve the necessities of the Allies. Nor was the distrustfulness of the Spaniards manifested in this way only. When the Vice-Admiral informed the general of the galleons that the squadron had come to escort him to Europe, the general politely replied that he had no instructions to warrant him in accepting such protection. This being so, Neville could only retire. He steered for Virginia, soon after reaching which he died, a victim, like Mees and many another gallant officer who served in those days on the West India station, to fever. Captain Thomas Dilkes,\(^{1}\) as senior officer, brought the squadron home.
Monsieur de Pointis made the best of his way home to France. On August 14th, being then about two hundred and fifty miles S.W. of Scilly, he was sighted by a detached squadron \( ^{2} \) which was cruising off the mouth of the Channel under Captain Thomas Harlow. The squadrons engaged on that day for about three hours, at the expiration of which the French drew off. They were chased, but lost. On the 15th, they were re-sighted and again chased. On the 16th, the chase was continued; but on that day De Pointis shook out his reefs, set his top-gallant sails and, with a fresh gale, left his pursuers far behind him. On the day following, he entered Brest. In the action the English squadron had lost eighteen killed and forty-seven wounded.
After Captain Mees and his squadron had sailed to join Vice-Admiral Neville, and to proceed with him to the West Indies, a further reinforcement was got ready at Portsmouth to follow him,
\( ^{1} \)  In the Breda. While in the West Indies he took a 40-gun ship, the上岸 Volant, with a cargo of specie worth nearly £100,000. Thomas Dilkes. Captain, 1689. Served at Cadiz and Vigo. Rear-Admiral, 1703. Knighted, 1704, for his behaviour at Malaga. Concerned in the destruction of the squadron of De Pointis off Gibraltar. Died, it was supposed by poison, on December 12th, 1707, after a public dinner which had been given in his honour at Leghorn, where he lies buried.
\( ^{2} \)  Consisting of the Torbay, 80, Devonshire, 80, Restoration, 70, Defiance, 64, and the hired vessel Betty. De Pointis, according to the official English account, then had with him one ship of about 90 guns, two 70's, one 60, and one 50.
