1693.]
THE THREE JOINT ADMIRALS.
357
Admiral Russell, leaving Sir John Ashby and Vice-Admiral van Callenburgh off the French coast, returned to St. Helens. It was hoped that the French ships, which had taken refuge in St. Malo, would come out, and, endeavouring to get into Brest, would be intercepted; but the expectation was disappointed. A retaliatory descent upon the French coast was next projected; yet, although enormous preparations were made, and great sums of money spent, lack of decision in high places, and general mismanagement, led at length to the abandonment of the scheme.
In the following year Russell, who had had differences with the Earl of Nottingham, was not employed; and on March 18th, 1693, the command of the grand fleet for the ensuing summer was put into commission, and entrusted to Henry Killigrew, Sir Clowdisley Shovell, and Sir Ralph Delavall, who acted jointly in a single flagship flying the Union at the main. A great many vessels hoisted the pennant; a large Dutch contingent joined, and vast plans were discussed; but owing to dilatoriness, confusion, and contradiction of orders, bad organisation, and deficient intelligence, no good was effected, and a serious disaster was suffered.
A huge flotilla of merchantmen—English, Dutch, German, Danish, and Swedish—bound chiefly for the Mediterranean, and generally spoken of as the Smyrna fleet, had for some time been awaiting a safe opportunity to leave the Channel and pass the Strait of Gibraltar. It was determined that the grand fleet should escort these ships some leagues to the south-west of Ushant, and should then return, leaving Vice-Admiral Rooke, who had been knighted by King William on February 16th, to convoy them farther on their voyage. The French Court had good intelligence of what was going forward, and, with a view to intercept this rich flotilla, Tourville, with about seventy ships from Brest, and Victor Marie d'Estrées, with about twenty ships from Toulon, were ordered to make rendezvous in Lagos Bay, and there to lie in wait. Though
Russell*; 'Observats,' of M. de Crisenoy; Letter of James to Louis; Russell's short Disp. of May 20th; Daniel, 'Hist. de la Mil. Franç.'; D. Larrey, 'Hist. de France': 'Not. der Admiraliteitæn,' 1692; Papers of Scheij Family; Dalrymple, 'Mens. of Grt. Brit. and Ireland,' i.; Richer, 'Vie de Tourville'; Contin. of Aitzema, iv.; Europ. Mercurius'; MS. List of Commissions in Auth.'s coll.; 'Méms. de Villette-Murgai'; 'Méms. de Berwick' (1778); Papers of Tourville, Gabaret, D'Amfreville, Coëtlogon, and 'Ordres du Roi,' in the Archives de la Marne; 'Life of Capt. Stephen Martin'; Extrs. from Rooke's Journal (Charnock, i. 405); 'Bull. de la Soc. de l'Histoire de la France,' 1877.
