502
MINOR OPERATIONS, 1660-1714.
[1703.
return, another, under Captain Thomas Foulis, reconnoitred Calais, Gravelines, and Dunquerque; but the French remained in port; nor were there, during 1702, many signs of French activity in the Narrow Seas. Captain James Littleton, in the Medway, 60, picked up a few small prizes in the Channel; Captain Thomas Butler, of the Worcester, 50, did likewise; and Captain Robert Bokenham, of the Chatham, 50, won some trifling successes of the same kind. On the other hand, the Otter, sloop, Captain Isaac Andrews, was captured by two French ships on July 28th. But there were no single ship actions of any interest.
It has been mentioned in the last chapter that, after the death of Benbow, Captain William Whetstone, with the local rank of rear-admiral, succeeded as senior officer in the West Indies. After the battle of Vigo, Sir George Rooke detached to that station a substantial reinforcement, under Captain Hovenden Walker, in the Burford, 70; and in January, 1703, when the news of Benbow's death became known in England, Vice-Admiral John Graydon (W.) \( ^{1} \) was appointed, as regular Commander-in-Chief, to take his place. His instructions were to proceed, with certain ships, and with transports carrying troops, to pick up the ships already upon the station; to concentrate the whole force at Jamaica; to make provision for the sending home of prisoners, and for the protection of the English islands and of the trade; and then to sail to Newfoundland, and to do as much damage as possible to the French on those coasts. Graydon sailed on March 13th in the Resolution, 70, Captain Thomas Lyell, with the Blackwall, 50, Captain Thomas Day, and with the Montagu, 60, Captain William Cleveland, and the Nonsuch, 50, Captain Robert Thompson, which last had been ordered to see him a hundred and fifty leagues upon his voyage. On March 18th, in lat. 47° 30', he met four ships of the little squadron \( ^{2} \) with which Ducasse had engaged Benbow in the previous August. The Montagu, which led the English line, bore down to engage the rearmost and smallest of the French vessels, but was presently called off by signal from the Vice-Admiral, who conceived that his orders obliged him to make the best of his way to his destination, and prevented him from engaging, unless in self-defence. Thus the enemy got safely into Brest.
In the meantime, Whetstone, cruising off San Domingo,
\( ^{1} \)  He was, during his absence, advanced to be Vice-Admiral of the Rel.
\( ^{2} \)  See p. 369, ante.
