68
MILITARY HISTORY, 1603-1649.
[1627.
sent home to hasten the Irish regiments and the supplies which had been promised. There was also a report abroad \( ^{1} \) that a fleet of forty Spanish warships and twenty Dunquerquers would soon arrive to help the French in holding the island. \( ^{2} \)
For two days Buckingham busied himself in landing guns, but in his determination to reduce St. Martin's, he failed to see that trenches would be needed. It was not until August that these were made. In the interval, provisions began to reach the fort. The ships could not keep out the small boats used for this service. No small craft had been provided with the expedition, and even of the ships' boats many had been lost. An attack on some of the ships was beaten off on the 23rd, and was not repeated. The boats of the fleet rowed guard to keep provisions out of the fort, but with indifferent success. The siege began to seem tedious to Buckingham, and, against advice, an assault was delivered.
When this was repulsed, he decided that the siege must be laid in form, and, on August 20th, he began a boom which should keep provisions from the citadel. A storm destroyed this before it was complete: it was therefore replaced by hawsers stretched from ship to ship.
Meanwhile, on 2nd September, some reinforcements, two thousand five hundred strong, arrived under Sir Ralph Bingley. Holland was still expected with eight thousand. In his great need of men, Buckingham had landed five hundred sailors under Captain Weddell, but they proved of little use. Bingley's Irish troops were ordered to assault La Prée. A few guns were landed at La Flotte, but, when the preparations were well advanced, the order was foolishly cancelled.
Provisions were running short. They had been ordered in England, \( ^{3} \) but bad weather had delayed their departure. When Sir John Burgh was killed, even Buckingham began to despair of success. Though the Rochellers had joined us there was little help to be had from them. Even such provisions as could be procured from them were only bought at an exorbitant rate. \( ^{4} \) But at the end of September, Sir Henry Palmer arrived from England with the
\( ^{1} \)  “Harl. Misc., v. 111.
\( ^{2} \)  The treaty between France and Spain had been signed on religious grounds. Politically, there could be no union between the countries.
\( ^{3} \)  Cal. S. P. Dom. lxx. 45, and cf. ‘Federa,’ VIII. ii. 207.
\( ^{4} \)  ‘Harl. Misc.’ v. 3.
